The Fox and the Grapes

One hot summer day a fox was strolling through an orchard when he came upon
a bunch of grapes ripening high upon a trellis. They would be just the thing
to quench my thirst, he thought. Drawing back a few paces, he took a run and
a jump, and just missed the bunch. Turning round again, he tried once more,
and again he failed. Again and again he tried after the tempting morsel, but
at last had to give up, and walked away with his nose in the air, saying:
I am sure they are sour.

The Tortoise and the Hare

A hare was making fun of the tortoise one day for being so slow. Do you ever
get anywhere, he asked with a mocking laugh. Yes, replied the tortoise, and
I get there sooner than you think. I will run you a race and prove it. The
hare was much amused at the idea of running a race with the tortoise, but for
the fun of the thing he agreed. So the fox, who had consented to act as judge,
marked the distance and started the runners off. The hare was soon far out of
sight, and to make the tortoise feel how foolish it was to try a race with
him, he lay down beside the course to take a nap. The tortoise meanwhile kept
plodding on, and in time passed the place where the hare was sleeping. But the
hare slept on, and when at last he woke up, the tortoise was near the goal.
The hare now ran his swiftest, but he could not overtake the tortoise in time.
Slow and steady wins the race.

The North Wind and the Sun

The north wind and the sun disputed which was the more powerful, and agreed
that he should be accounted the stronger who could first strip a traveller of
his cloak. The north wind tried first, and blew with all his might, but the
keener his blasts, the closer the traveller wrapped his cloak about him, till
at last the wind gave up in despair. Then the sun came out and shone in all
his glory upon the traveller, who soon found it too hot to walk with his cloak
on, and so took it off. Gentleness and kind persuasion win where force and
bluster fail.

The Crow and the Pitcher

A crow, half dead with thirst, came upon a pitcher which had once been full of
water. But when the crow put its beak into the mouth of the pitcher he found
that only very little water was left in it, and that he could not reach far
enough down to get at it. He tried, and he tried, but at last had to give up
in despair. Then a thought came to him, and he took a pebble and dropped it
into the pitcher. Then he took another pebble and dropped that in. Little by
little the water rose, until at last he could reach it and quench his thirst.
Necessity is the mother of invention.
